docs/pages/off-canvas.md, before:

---
title: Off-canvas
description: Off-canvas panels are positioned outside of the viewport and slide in when activated. Setting up an off-canvas layout in Foundation is super easy.
sass:
  - scss/components/_off-canvas.scss
  - scss/components/_title-bar.scss
js: js/foundation.offcanvas.js
tags:
  - navigation
  - offcanvas
  - off-canvas
  - nav
  - title bar
flex: true
---

<div class="primary callout">
  <p>Good news! We've updated Off-canvas to offer more and better functionality. Another bonus is the markup is simplified. This new version applies to version 6.3+. We work hard to avoid breaking changes, so any markup updates are listed in the <a href="#migrating-from-versions-prior-to-v6-3">migration section</a> of this page.</p>
</div>

<button class="button" type="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeft">Toggle Off-canvas</button>

Foundation's Off-canvas is a well established mobile pattern for navigation that can also be used to create a responsive sidebar. It can open from any direction, left, right, top, and bottom. There are options to allow the Off-canvas to push your page over or to overlap your page plus a few other neat tricks.

## Setup

Setting up the Off-canvas only requires two elements! To setup the Off-canvas create an off-canvas container with the class `.off-canvas` and the attribute `data-off-canvas`. This is the container that holds your Off-canvas content.

The Off-canvas container also needs a positioning class to determine which side of the viewport it opens from:

- `.position-left`
- `.position-right`
- `.position-top`
- `.position-bottom`

Also be sure the off-canvas panel has a unique ID so it can be targeted by the click trigger.

Example:

```html
<div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas>
  <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
</div>
```

Along with the Off-canvas container, the main content of your page will be housed in its own container with the class `.off-canvas-content` and attribute `data-off-canvas-content`. This is where your page content lives.

```html
<div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
  <!-- Your page content lives here -->
</div>
```

So putting it all together:

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas>
    <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
  </div>
  <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
    <!-- Your page content lives here -->
  </div>
</body>
```

### Wrapper

You can add an optionalwrapper around off-canvas and the content. This hides the vertical (on top/bottom off-canvas) or horizontal (on left/right off-canvas) scrollbars the body will have.
Simply add a container with the class `.off-canvas-wrapper`.

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
    <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
      <!-- Your page content lives here -->
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
```

### Click Triggers

To create a click trigger that opens the panel, add the attribute `data-open` or `data-toggle` to any element. That element will then open or toggle the panel when clicked on. The value of the data attribute should be the ID of the off-canvas.

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeft">Open Menu</button>
```

### Close Button

Foundation's Close component can be used inside the off-canvas to close it.

```html
<button class="close-button" aria-label="Close menu" type="button" data-close>
  <span aria-hidden="true">&times;</span>
</button>
```

### Complete Example

Here's a complete example that can be pasted into the `<body>` tag of your page. It includes a close button and basic menu styles.

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas>

    <!-- Close button -->
    <button class="close-button" aria-label="Close menu" type="button" data-close>
      <span aria-hidden="true">&times;</span>
    </button>

    <!-- Menu -->
    <ul class="vertical menu">
      <li><a href="#">Foundation</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Dot</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">ZURB</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Com</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Slash</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Sites</a></li>
    </ul>

  </div>

  <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
    <!-- Your page content lives here -->
  </div>
</body>
```
---

## Off-canvas Position

Foundation's Off-canvas is set to `position: fixed` by default using the `.off-canvas` class. This makes the off-canvas panel sit in relation to the viewport, and is the desired behavior for most users. However you can also set an off-canvas container to `position: absolute` by using the alternative class `.off-canvas-absolute`. Also be sure to use the `.off-canvas-wrapper` when using this method.

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeftSPlit1">Open Left</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasRightSplit2">Open Right</button>

<div class="row">
  <div class="small-6 columns">
    <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
      <div class="off-canvas-absolute position-left" id="offCanvasLeftSPlit1" data-off-canvas>
        <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
      </div>
      <div class="off-canvas-content" style="min-height: 300px;" data-off-canvas-content>
        <p>I have nothing to do with the off-canvas on the right!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="small-6 columns">
    <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
      <div class="off-canvas-absolute position-right" id="offCanvasRightSplit2" data-off-canvas>
        <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
      </div>
      <div class="off-canvas-content" style="min-height: 300px;" data-off-canvas-content>
        <p>Im a unique off-canvas container all on my own!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

---

## Off-canvas Directions

Foundation's Off-canvas can open from any direction, left, right, top, and bottom.

The Off-canvas container requires a positioning class to determine which side of the viewport it opens from:

- `.position-left`
- `.position-right`
- `.position-top`
- `.position-bottom`

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeft1">Open Left</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasRight1">Open Right</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasTop1">Open Top</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasBottom1">Open Bottom</button>

<div class="row column">
  <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
    <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasLeft1" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas position-right" id="offCanvasRight1" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas position-top" id="offCanvasTop1" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas position-bottom" id="offCanvasBottom1" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
      <img src="http://placehold.it/300x300" class="" height="" width="" alt="">
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

---

## Multiple Panels

A design can have multiple panels. Be sure that all panels come *before* the `.off-canvas-content` wrapper&mdash;this is required for the CSS to apply correctly.

<div class="primary callout">
  <p>When using Foundation in <a href="rtl.html">right-to-left</a> mode, "right" still means right, and "left" still means left.</p>
</div>

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasLeft" data-off-canvas></div>
  <div class="off-canvas position-right" id="offCanvasRight" data-off-canvas></div>
  <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content></div>
</body>
```

<button class="button" type="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeft">Open Left Menu</button>
<button class="button" type="button" data-toggle="offCanvasRight">Open Right Menu</button>

---

## Off-canvas Transitions

You can switch the default transition of the off-canvas from pushing the page over as it open to overlapping the page by adding the `data-transition="overlap"` to the `.off-canvas`.
There are 2 available transitions: push (`data-transition="push"`) which is the default, and overlap (`data-transition="overlap"`).

```html
<div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasLeft1" data-off-canvas>
  <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
</div>
```

<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasOverlap">Open Left with Overlap</button>
<button class="button" type="button" data-toggle="offCanvasRight">Open Right with Push</button>

<div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasOverlap" data-off-canvas data-transition="overlap">
  <ul class="vertical menu">
    <li><a href="#">Foundation</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Dot</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">ZURB</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Com</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Slash</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Sites</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

---

## Reveal on Larger Screens

The left- and right-hand off-canvas panes can be set to be persistent on larger screens like a sidebar. Add the class `.reveal-for-medium` or `.reveal-for-large` to the off-canvas menu. These classes determine what breakpoint the off-canvas will default open.

The main content area (`.off-canvas-content`) will be padded to the left or right equal to the width of the container.

<div class="callout">
  <p>The menu will be fixed-position by default, meaning it follows you as you scroll up and down. The menu also gets its own scroll bar if it's taller than the window. To disable these features, set the <code>$offcanvas-fixed-reveal</code> variable to <code>false</code>.</p>
</div>

<div class="warning callout">
  <p>The slide in/out of the plugin still works when these classes are active. If you use this feature on a larger screen, be sure to hide any click triggers on those larger breakpoints as well. Foundation's <a href="visibility.html">visibility classes</a> can help you with that.</p>
</div>

```html
<div class="off-canvas position-left reveal-for-large" data-off-canvas>
  <!-- ... -->
</div>
```

<button type="button" class="button" data-docs-example-ofc>Toggle Reveal Class</button>

---

## Combining with Title Bar

If you need a simple bar to contain your hamburger icon/s and toggle the off-canvas, `.title-bar` is here to help. It supports left- and right-aligned sections. You can add your off-canvas toggle triggers here:

```html_example
<div class="title-bar">
  <div class="title-bar-left">
    <button class="menu-icon" type="button" data-open="offCanvasLeft"></button>
    <span class="title-bar-title">Foundation</span>
  </div>
  <div class="title-bar-right">
    <button class="menu-icon" type="button" data-open="offCanvasRight"></button>
  </div>
</div>
```
<br>

<div class="primary callout">
  <p>When using the `title-bar` with a vertical off-canvas, the title-bar icons are still either `title-bar-left` or `title-bar-right`.</p>
</div>

```html_example
<div class="title-bar">
  <div class="title-bar-left">
    <button class="menu-icon" type="button" data-open="offCanvasTop"></button>
    <span class="title-bar-title">Foundation title bar with top off-canvas</span>
  </div>
  <div class="title-bar-right">
    <button class="menu-icon" type="button" data-open="offCanvasTop"></button>
  </div>
</div>
```

---

#### Responsive Off-Canvas (Putting it all together)

For an example of off-canvas on small screens and Top Bar Menu with Dropdowns, check out this Building Block: http://zurb.com/building-blocks/top-bar-with-off-canvas

---

## In-Canvas

If you want an element to be off-canvas only for specific sceen sizes and then move in-canvas you can use the new class <code>.in-canvas-for-[BREAKPOINT]</code> for this. Compared to the <a href="#reveal-on-larger-screens">Reveal on Larger Screens</a> feature it doesn't actually open the off-canvas for specific screen sizes but overrides the off-canvas styles so it behaves as an usual page element. This way you can place an element anywhere on the page and move it into off-canvas for e.g. small screens.

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button hide-for-large" data-toggle="inCanvasExample">
  Open in-canvas that is off-canvas now
</button>
<div class="off-canvas in-canvas-for-large position-right" id="inCanvasExample" data-off-canvas>
  <div class="callout">I'm in-canvas for medium screen size and move off-canvas for medium down.</div>
</div>
```

---

## Nested Off-Canvas

Since v6.4 it's also possible to place the off-canvas inside the off-canvas content instead of only as a sibling. This is handy if you want to use the same element e.g. for small screens as off-canvas and for large screens as usual page element without duplicate content.<br>
To realize such responsive off-canvas changing you can use the new <a href="#in-canvas">In-Canvas</a> class. Besides it is now possible to place the off-canvas element anywhere on the page if you use the new content-id option to bind it to the appropriate content.

So there are three ways to place the off-canvas element now:
<ol>
  <li>preceding sibling of the off-canvas content (as done prior to v6.4)</li>
  <li>nested in the off-canvas content</li>
  <li>anywhere using <code>data-content-id="[CONTENT-ID]"</code> on the element</li>
</ol>

<div class="secondary callout">As you can see in the example below there are two off-canvas elements that have the same position in the same content container. This is possible since v6.4 and lets you easily define multiple off-canvas elements with the same position and toggle them.</div>

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasNestedPush">
  Open Nested Off-Canvas Push
</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasNestedOverlap">
  Open Nested Off-Canvas Overlap
</button>

<p>I'm usual content inside the off-canvas content</p>
<div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasNestedPush" data-off-canvas>
  <div class="callout">I'm a nested off-canvas that mustn't be a sibling of the off-canvas content anymore.</div>
</div>
<div class="off-canvas position-left" data-transition="overlap" id="offCanvasNestedOverlap" data-off-canvas>
  <div class="callout">I'm a nested off-canvas that uses overlap transition and the same position as the other nested off-canvas.</div>
</div>
<p>The callout above is moved into the off-canvas area and is nested in the off-canvas content.</p>
```

---

## Migrating from versions prior to v6.3

<div class="primary callout">
  <p>`off-canvas-wrapper` and `off-canvas-wrapper-inner` are no longer needed on the new off-canvas. If you leave them in with 6.3+ off-canvas will work as expected.</p>
</div>

The default off-canvas position has changed from absolute to fixed. This will likely be the position you want since the menu is in view when opened regardless of the scroll position. You can choose the off-canvas position back to absolute using the built in classes:

- `.is-overlay-absolute`
- `.is-overlay-fixed`

Or in globally in the _settings.scss, set the <code>$offcanvas-fixed-reveal</code> variable to <code>false</code>.</p>

```html
<div class="off-canvas position-left reveal-for-large" data-off-canvas>
  <!-- ... -->
</div>
```

### Pre 6.3 Off-canvas Setup

To start, create two wrappers to house the page. These are necessary to prevent the off-canvas panels from being visible when they're not open. They also smooth out cross-browser bugs.
- The outer wrapper has the class `.off-canvas-wrapper`.
- The inner wrapper has the class `.off-canvas-wrapper-inner` and the attribute `data-off-canvas-wrapper`.

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
    <div class="off-canvas-wrapper-inner" data-off-canvas-wrapper></div>
  </div>
</body>
```

Inside these wrappers, create an off-canvas panel with the class `.off-canvas` and the attribute `data-off-canvas`. The panel also needs a positioning class, which can be `.position-left` or `.position-right`, and an attribute set for the position, `data-position="left"` or `data-position="right"`. Last, make sure the off-canvas panel has a unique ID so it can be targeted.

Along with the panel, the main content of your page will be housed in its own container with the class `.off-canvas-content` and attribute `data-off-canvas-content`. You will be putting your actual page content inside a class of `.off-canvas-content`.)

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
    <div class="off-canvas-wrapper-inner" data-off-canvas-wrapper>
      <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas></div>
      <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
```

Commit message:

Replace off-canvas shadow for push panel with inner box shadow
Using a pseudo ::after element for the off-canvas push panel shadow causes issues if the element's content height is greater than the element's height.
Therefore I've added two additional variables for the push panel and use it to create an inner box shadow.

docs/pages/off-canvas.md, after:

---
title: Off-canvas
description: Off-canvas panels are positioned outside of the viewport and slide in when activated. Setting up an off-canvas layout in Foundation is super easy.
sass:
  - scss/components/_off-canvas.scss
  - scss/components/_title-bar.scss
js: js/foundation.offcanvas.js
tags:
  - navigation
  - offcanvas
  - off-canvas
  - nav
  - title bar
flex: true
---

<div class="primary callout">
  <p>Good news! We've updated Off-canvas to offer more and better functionality. Another bonus is the markup is simplified. This new version applies to version 6.3+. We work hard to avoid breaking changes, so any markup updates are listed in the <a href="#migrating-from-versions-prior-to-v6-3">migration section</a> of this page.</p>
</div>

<button class="button" type="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeft">Toggle Off-canvas</button>

Foundation's Off-canvas is a well established mobile pattern for navigation that can also be used to create a responsive sidebar. It can open from any direction, left, right, top, and bottom. There are options to allow the Off-canvas to push your page over or to overlap your page plus a few other neat tricks.

## Setup

Setting up the Off-canvas only requires two elements! To setup the Off-canvas create an off-canvas container with the class `.off-canvas` and the attribute `data-off-canvas`. This is the container that holds your Off-canvas content.

The Off-canvas container also needs a positioning class to determine which side of the viewport it opens from:

- `.position-left`
- `.position-right`
- `.position-top`
- `.position-bottom`

Also be sure the off-canvas panel has a unique ID so it can be targeted by the click trigger.

Example:

```html
<div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas>
  <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
</div>
```

Along with the Off-canvas container, the main content of your page will be housed in its own container with the class `.off-canvas-content` and attribute `data-off-canvas-content`. This is where your page content lives.

```html
<div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
  <!-- Your page content lives here -->
</div>
```

So putting it all together:

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas>
    <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
  </div>
  <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
    <!-- Your page content lives here -->
  </div>
</body>
```

### Wrapper

You can add an optionalwrapper around off-canvas and the content. This hides the vertical (on top/bottom off-canvas) or horizontal (on left/right off-canvas) scrollbars the body will have.
Simply add a container with the class `.off-canvas-wrapper`.

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
    <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
      <!-- Your page content lives here -->
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
```

### Click Triggers

To create a click trigger that opens the panel, add the attribute `data-open` or `data-toggle` to any element. That element will then open or toggle the panel when clicked on. The value of the data attribute should be the ID of the off-canvas.

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeft">Open Menu</button>
```

### Close Button

Foundation's Close component can be used inside the off-canvas to close it.

```html
<button class="close-button" aria-label="Close menu" type="button" data-close>
  <span aria-hidden="true">&times;</span>
</button>
```

### Complete Example

Here's a complete example that can be pasted into the `<body>` tag of your page. It includes a close button and basic menu styles.

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas>

    <!-- Close button -->
    <button class="close-button" aria-label="Close menu" type="button" data-close>
      <span aria-hidden="true">&times;</span>
    </button>

    <!-- Menu -->
    <ul class="vertical menu">
      <li><a href="#">Foundation</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Dot</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">ZURB</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Com</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Slash</a></li>
      <li><a href="#">Sites</a></li>
    </ul>

  </div>

  <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
    <!-- Your page content lives here -->
  </div>
</body>
```
---

## Off-canvas Position

Foundation's Off-canvas is set to `position: fixed` by default using the `.off-canvas` class. This makes the off-canvas panel sit in relation to the viewport, and is the desired behavior for most users. However you can also set an off-canvas container to `position: absolute` by using the alternative class `.off-canvas-absolute`. Also be sure to use the `.off-canvas-wrapper` when using this method.

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeftSPlit1">Open Left</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasRightSplit2">Open Right</button>

<div class="row">
  <div class="small-6 columns">
    <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
      <div class="off-canvas-absolute position-left" id="offCanvasLeftSPlit1" data-off-canvas>
        <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
      </div>
      <div class="off-canvas-content" style="min-height: 300px;" data-off-canvas-content>
        <p>I have nothing to do with the off-canvas on the right!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="small-6 columns">
    <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
      <div class="off-canvas-absolute position-right" id="offCanvasRightSplit2" data-off-canvas>
        <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
      </div>
      <div class="off-canvas-content" style="min-height: 300px;" data-off-canvas-content>
        <p>Im a unique off-canvas container all on my own!</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

---

## Off-canvas Directions

Foundation's Off-canvas can open from any direction, left, right, top, and bottom.

The Off-canvas container requires a positioning class to determine which side of the viewport it opens from:

- `.position-left`
- `.position-right`
- `.position-top`
- `.position-bottom`

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeft1">Open Left</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasRight1">Open Right</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasTop1">Open Top</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasBottom1">Open Bottom</button>

<div class="row column">
  <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
    <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasLeft1" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas position-right" id="offCanvasRight1" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas position-top" id="offCanvasTop1" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas position-bottom" id="offCanvasBottom1" data-off-canvas>
      <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
    </div>
    <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content>
      <img src="http://placehold.it/300x300" class="" height="" width="" alt="">
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

---

## Multiple Panels

A design can have multiple panels. Be sure that all panels come *before* the `.off-canvas-content` wrapper&mdash;this is required for the CSS to apply correctly.

<div class="primary callout">
  <p>When using Foundation in <a href="rtl.html">right-to-left</a> mode, "right" still means right, and "left" still means left.</p>
</div>

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasLeft" data-off-canvas></div>
  <div class="off-canvas position-right" id="offCanvasRight" data-off-canvas></div>
  <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content></div>
</body>
```

<button class="button" type="button" data-toggle="offCanvasLeft">Open Left Menu</button>
<button class="button" type="button" data-toggle="offCanvasRight">Open Right Menu</button>

---

## Off-canvas Transitions

You can switch the default transition of the off-canvas from pushing the page over as it open to overlapping the page by adding the `data-transition="overlap"` to the `.off-canvas`.
There are 2 available transitions: push (`data-transition="push"`) which is the default, and overlap (`data-transition="overlap"`).

```html
<div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasLeft1" data-off-canvas>
  <!-- Your menu or Off-canvas content goes here -->
</div>
```

<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasOverlap">Open Left with Overlap</button>
<button class="button" type="button" data-toggle="offCanvasRight">Open Right with Push</button>

<div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasOverlap" data-off-canvas data-transition="overlap">
  <ul class="vertical menu">
    <li><a href="#">Foundation</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Dot</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">ZURB</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Com</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Slash</a></li>
    <li><a href="#">Sites</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

---

## Reveal on Larger Screens

The left- and right-hand off-canvas panes can be set to be persistent on larger screens like a sidebar. Add the class `.reveal-for-medium` or `.reveal-for-large` to the off-canvas menu. These classes determine what breakpoint the off-canvas will default open.

The main content area (`.off-canvas-content`) will be padded to the left or right equal to the width of the container.

<div class="callout">
  <p>The menu will be fixed-position by default, meaning it follows you as you scroll up and down. The menu also gets its own scroll bar if it's taller than the window. To disable these features, set the <code>$offcanvas-fixed-reveal</code> variable to <code>false</code>.</p>
</div>

<div class="warning callout">
  <p>The slide in/out of the plugin still works when these classes are active. If you use this feature on a larger screen, be sure to hide any click triggers on those larger breakpoints as well. Foundation's <a href="visibility.html">visibility classes</a> can help you with that.</p>
</div>

```html
<div class="off-canvas position-left reveal-for-large" data-off-canvas>
  <!-- ... -->
</div>
```

<button type="button" class="button" data-docs-example-ofc>Toggle Reveal Class</button>

---

## Combining with Title Bar

If you need a simple bar to contain your hamburger icon/s and toggle the off-canvas, `.title-bar` is here to help. It supports left- and right-aligned sections. You can add your off-canvas toggle triggers here:

```html_example
<div class="title-bar">
  <div class="title-bar-left">
    <button class="menu-icon" type="button" data-open="offCanvasLeft"></button>
    <span class="title-bar-title">Foundation</span>
  </div>
  <div class="title-bar-right">
    <button class="menu-icon" type="button" data-open="offCanvasRight"></button>
  </div>
</div>
```
<br>

<div class="primary callout">
  <p>When using the `title-bar` with a vertical off-canvas, the title-bar icons are still either `title-bar-left` or `title-bar-right`.</p>
</div>

```html_example
<div class="title-bar">
  <div class="title-bar-left">
    <button class="menu-icon" type="button" data-open="offCanvasTop"></button>
    <span class="title-bar-title">Foundation title bar with top off-canvas</span>
  </div>
  <div class="title-bar-right">
    <button class="menu-icon" type="button" data-open="offCanvasTop"></button>
  </div>
</div>
```

---

#### Responsive Off-Canvas (Putting it all together)

For an example of off-canvas on small screens and Top Bar Menu with Dropdowns, check out this Building Block: http://zurb.com/building-blocks/top-bar-with-off-canvas

---

## In-Canvas

If you want an element to be off-canvas only for specific sceen sizes and then move in-canvas you can use the new class <code>.in-canvas-for-[BREAKPOINT]</code> for this. Compared to the <a href="#reveal-on-larger-screens">Reveal on Larger Screens</a> feature it doesn't actually open the off-canvas for specific screen sizes but overrides the off-canvas styles so it behaves as an usual page element. This way you can place an element anywhere on the page and move it into off-canvas for e.g. small screens.

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button hide-for-large" data-toggle="inCanvasExample">
  Open in-canvas that is off-canvas now
</button>
<div class="off-canvas in-canvas-for-large position-right" id="inCanvasExample" data-off-canvas>
  <div class="callout">I'm in-canvas for medium screen size and move off-canvas for medium down.</div>
</div>
```

---

## Nested Off-Canvas

Since v6.4 it's also possible to place the off-canvas inside the off-canvas content instead of only as a sibling. This is handy if you want to use the same element e.g. for small screens as off-canvas and for large screens as usual page element without duplicate content.<br>
To realize such responsive off-canvas changing you can use the new <a href="#in-canvas">In-Canvas</a> class. Besides it is now possible to place the off-canvas element anywhere on the page if you use the new content-id option to bind it to the appropriate content.

So there are three ways to place the off-canvas element now:
<ol>
  <li>preceding sibling of the off-canvas content (as done prior to v6.4)</li>
  <li>nested in the off-canvas content</li>
  <li>anywhere using <code>data-content-id="[CONTENT-ID]"</code> on the element</li>
</ol>

<div class="secondary callout">As you can see in the example below there are two off-canvas elements that have the same position in the same content container. This is possible since v6.4 and lets you easily define multiple off-canvas elements with the same position and toggle them.</div>

```html_example
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasNestedPush">
  Open Nested Off-Canvas Push
</button>
<button type="button" class="button" data-toggle="offCanvasNestedOverlap">
  Open Nested Off-Canvas Overlap
</button>

<p>I'm usual content inside the off-canvas content</p>
<div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvasNestedPush" data-off-canvas>
  <div class="callout">I'm a nested off-canvas that mustn't be a sibling of the off-canvas content anymore.</div>
</div>
<div class="off-canvas position-left" data-transition="overlap" id="offCanvasNestedOverlap" data-off-canvas>
  <div class="callout">I'm a nested off-canvas that uses overlap transition and the same position as the other nested off-canvas.</div>
</div>
<p>The callout above is moved into the off-canvas area and is nested in the off-canvas content.</p>
```

---

## Migrating from versions prior to v6.4

If you're upgrading from v6.3 there's nothing to do unless you haven't changed the default value of `$offcanvas-shadow`. Prior to v6.4 this variable was used for both, overlap and push off-canvas elements. Now it's only used for the overlap element whereas the push element uses two new variables:

- `$offcanvas-inner-shadow-size` which is a number (mostly px)
- `$offcanvas-inner-shadow-color` which is a color (mostly rgba)

So if you have changed the default off-canvas shadow you have to adjust the value of these variables in your settings.

---

## Migrating from versions prior to v6.3

<div class="primary callout">
  <p>`off-canvas-wrapper` and `off-canvas-wrapper-inner` are no longer needed on the new off-canvas. If you leave them in with 6.3+ off-canvas will work as expected.</p>
</div>

The default off-canvas position has changed from absolute to fixed. This will likely be the position you want since the menu is in view when opened regardless of the scroll position. You can choose the off-canvas position back to absolute using the built in classes:

- `.is-overlay-absolute`
- `.is-overlay-fixed`

Or in globally in the _settings.scss, set the <code>$offcanvas-fixed-reveal</code> variable to <code>false</code>.</p>

```html
<div class="off-canvas position-left reveal-for-large" data-off-canvas>
  <!-- ... -->
</div>
```

### Pre 6.3 Off-canvas Setup

To start, create two wrappers to house the page. These are necessary to prevent the off-canvas panels from being visible when they're not open. They also smooth out cross-browser bugs.
- The outer wrapper has the class `.off-canvas-wrapper`.
- The inner wrapper has the class `.off-canvas-wrapper-inner` and the attribute `data-off-canvas-wrapper`.

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
    <div class="off-canvas-wrapper-inner" data-off-canvas-wrapper></div>
  </div>
</body>
```

Inside these wrappers, create an off-canvas panel with the class `.off-canvas` and the attribute `data-off-canvas`. The panel also needs a positioning class, which can be `.position-left` or `.position-right`, and an attribute set for the position, `data-position="left"` or `data-position="right"`. Last, make sure the off-canvas panel has a unique ID so it can be targeted.

Along with the panel, the main content of your page will be housed in its own container with the class `.off-canvas-content` and attribute `data-off-canvas-content`. You will be putting your actual page content inside a class of `.off-canvas-content`.)

```html
<body>
  <div class="off-canvas-wrapper">
    <div class="off-canvas-wrapper-inner" data-off-canvas-wrapper>
      <div class="off-canvas position-left" id="offCanvas" data-off-canvas></div>
      <div class="off-canvas-content" data-off-canvas-content></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</body>
```
