docs/pages/typography-base.md, before:

---
title: Base Typography
description: Typography in Foundation 6 is meant to make your life easier by providing clean, attractive, simple default styles for all of the most basic typographical elements.
video: pzAyIfsXis4
sass:
  - scss/typography/_base.scss
  - scss/typography/_print.scss
tags:
  - paragraph
  - heading
  - link
  - definition
  - blockquote
  - abbreviation
  - acronym
  - code
  - keystroke
---

## Paragraphs

This is a paragraph. Paragraphs are preset with a font size, line height and spacing to match the overall vertical rhythm. To show what a paragraph looks like this needs a little more content&mdash;so, did you know that there are storms occurring on Jupiter that are larger than the Earth? Pretty cool. Use the `<strong>` and `<em>` tags to denote text that should be displayed or read with emphasis. Browsers will **bold** and *italicize* the words, while screen readers will read them with *emphasis*.

<div class="callout primary">
  <p>If the emphasis of a phrase is important, don't make the emphasis purely visual&mdash;use the `<em>` or `<strong>` tags to mark it as well. Both of these tags have built-in styles, but there's no harm in adding additional styles in specific contexts.</p>
</div>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/IamManchanda/pen/oWMEOd?editors=1000" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html
<p>This is a paragraph. Paragraphs are preset with a font size, line height and spacing to match the overall vertical rhythm. To show what a paragraph looks like this needs a little more content so, did you know that there are storms occurring on Jupiter that are larger than the Earth? Pretty cool. Wrap strong around type to <strong>make it bold!</strong>. You can also use em to <em>italicize your words</em>.</p>
```

---

## Header

Foundation includes styles for all headings&mdash;they're balanced and sized along a modular scale.

<a class="" data-open-video="0:25"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>
<div class="callout primary">
  <p>Avoid skipping heading levels when structuring your document, as it confuses screen readers. For example, after using an <code>&lt;h2&gt;</code> in your code, the next heading used should be either <code>&lt;h2&gt;</code> or <code>&lt;h3&gt;</code>. If you need a heading to look bigger or smaller to match a specific style, use CSS to override the default size.</p>
</div>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
  <a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/PmeKme" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<h1>h1. This is a very large header.</h1>
<h2>h2. This is a large header.</h2>
<h3>h3. This is a medium header.</h3>
<h4>h4. This is a moderate header.</h4>
<h5>h5. This is a small header.</h5>
<h6>h6. This is a tiny header.</h6>
```

---

### Header Styles

The framework includes two typographic scales&mdash;one uses a narrow range of sizes for small-sized screens, and the other uses a wider range of sizes for medium- and larger-sized screens. You can change these scales, or add new ones for other breakpoints, by editing the `$header-styles` map in your project's <a href="sass.html#the-settings-file">Settings File</a>.

<a class="" data-open-video="1:28"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>

Header  | Default | Medium and up
--------|---------|--------------
`<h1>`  | 24px    | 48px
`<h2>`  | 20px    | 40px
`<h3>`  | 19px    | 31px
`<h4>`  | 18px    | 25px
`<h5>`  | 17px    | 20px
`<h6>`  | 16px    | 16px

You can also adjust line height, margin top and margin bottom for each heading size by adding values in your <a href="sass.html#the-settings-file">Settings File</a>.

In its most complete form the `$header-styles` map looks like this:

```
$header-styles: (
  'small': (
    'h1': ('font-size': 24, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h2': ('font-size': 20, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h3': ('font-size': 19, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h4': ('font-size': 18, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h5': ('font-size': 17, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h6': ('font-size': 16, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom)
  ),
  'medium': (
    'h1': ('font-size': 48, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h2': ('font-size': 40, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h3': ('font-size': 31, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h4': ('font-size': 25, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h5': ('font-size': 20, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h6': ('font-size': 16, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom)
  ),
  ...
);
```

Because this is a little bit lengthy we have also introduced a short form, that you can use alternatively:

```
$header-styles: (
  'small': (
    'h1': ('fs': 24, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h2': ('fs': 20, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h3': ('fs': 19, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h4': ('fs': 18, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h5': ('fs': 17, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h6': ('fs': 16, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom)
  ),
  'medium': (
    'h1': ('fs': 48, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h2': ('fs': 40, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h3': ('fs': 31, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h4': ('fs': 25, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h5': ('fs': 20, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h6': ('fs': 16, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom)
  ),
  ...
);
```

The values for `'font-size'`/`'fs'`, `'margin-top'`/`'mt'` and `'margin-bottom'`/`'mb'` are transformed into 'rem's. You can use any unit, but if you don't, we assume that you mean 'px'. If you do not set the keys `'font-size'`/`'fs'` defaults to `1rem`, `'margin-top'`/`'mt'` to `0` and `'margin-bottom'`/`'mb'` to `$header-margin-bottom` for size `'small'`. Thereafter the values for a larger size are inherited from the values of the smaller size if no value is entered for a larger breakpoint.

The value for `'line-height'`/`'lh'` is transformed into a unitless number, that expresses the line-height relative to the fonts-size. You can also input any unit. If you don't, we assume that for numbers smaller than or equal to 10, you mean a typical relative line-height. However, if you put in anything larger than 10, we assume you mean 'px', since we have not yet seen relative line-heights that were larger than 10. If you do not set `'line-height'`/`'lh'` it defaults to `$header-lineheight` for size `'small'`. Thereafter the value for a larger size is inherited from the values of the smaller size.

<div class="callout alert">
  <p><strong>The `$header-styles` map has replaced `$header-sizes` map in version 6.3. `$header-styles` map is a more general map than `$header-sizes`.</strong></p>
  <p>`$header-sizes` map is still working and is used to initialize the `$header-styles` map. In version 6.4 the `$header-sizes` is going to be deprecated.</p>
</div>

---

### Small Header Segments

By inserting a `<small>` element into a header Foundation will scale the header font size down for an inline element, allowing you to use this for subtitles or other secondary header text.

<p>
  <a class="" data-open-video="2:46"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>
</p>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
  <a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/eWrEEm" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<h3>Foundation for Sites <small>Version 6.4.0</small></h3>
```

---

## Links

Links are very standard, and the color is preset to the Foundation primary color. <a href="global.html">Learn more about Foundation's global colors.</a>

<a class="" data-open-video="3:22"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>
<div class="callout">
  <p>To make links screen reader-friendly, avoid using vague words like "here" or "read more" within link text. The text of the link itself should adequately describe where the link goes.</p>
</div>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
  <a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/wdjqrY" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html
<p>Links are very standard, and the color is preset to the Foundation primary color. <a href="global.html">Learn more about Foundation's global colors.</a></p>
```

---

## Dividers

Use dividers to define thematic breaks between paragraphs. To denote the end of one section of a page and the start of another, it's better to use the `<section>` tag.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/Vbxzrz" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html
<hr>
```

---

## Unordered Lists

Use an unordered list to... *list things*, if the order of the items doesn't matter.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/mmLMXx" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<ul>
  <li>List item with a much longer description or more content.</li>
  <li>List item</li>
  <li>List item
    <ul>
      <li>Nested list item</li>
      <li>Nested list item</li>
      <li>Nested list item</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>List item</li>
  <li>List item</li>
  <li>List item</li>
</ul>
```

---

## Ordered Lists

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/XRqaBd" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<ol>
  <li>Cheese (essential)</li>
  <li>Pepperoni</li>
  <li>Bacon
    <ol>
      <li>Normal bacon</li>
      <li>Canadian bacon</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>Sausage</li>
  <li>Onions</li>
  <li>Mushrooms</li>
</ol>
```

---

## Definition Lists

A definition list (`<dl>`) is used to display name-value pairs, like metadata or a dictionary definition. Each term (`<dt>`) is paired with one or more definitions (`<dd>`).

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/oWdeMe" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<dl>
  <dt>Time</dt>
  <dd>The indefinite continued progress of existence and events in the past, present, and future regarded as a whole.</dd>
  <dt>Space</dt>
  <dd>A continuous area or expanse that is free, available, or unoccupied.</dd>
  <dd>The dimensions of height, depth, and width within which all things exist and move.</dd>
</dl>
```

---

## Blockquotes

Sometimes other people say smart things, and you may want to mention those things with a quote. We've got you covered.

<div class="callout">
  By default, `<cite>` takes the look of the `.cite-block` component. In Sass, you can customize it with <a href="#sass-variables">`$cite-*` variables</a> or disable it by setting `$enable-cite-block` to false.
</div>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/ZKoJMb" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<blockquote>
  Those people who think they know everything are a great annoyance to those of us who do.
  <cite>Isaac Asimov</cite>
</blockquote>
```

---

## Abbreviations

Use the `<abbr>` tag to annotate a shortened term. Abbreviations must always have a `title` attribute which clarifies the full term.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/IamManchanda/pen/jmpzNW?editors=1000" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<p>In my dream last night, I saw <abbr title="John Ronald Reuel">J. R. R.</abbr> Tolkien and George <abbr title="Raymond Richard">R. R.</abbr> Martin hanging out on Sunset <abbr title="Boulevard">Blvd</abbr>.</p>
```

---

## Code

Format references to code with the `<code>` tag. In order for angle brackets `<>` to render correctly, you need to change them to `&lt; and &gt;`.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/LymjvO" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
Remember to escape angle brackets when printing HTML: <code>&lt;div&gt;</code>
```

---

## Keystrokes

Use the `<kbd>` element to annotate a key stroke or combination.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/IamManchanda/pen/GmBxRL?editors=1000" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<p>Press <kbd>Cmd+Q</kbd> (or <kbd>Ctrl+Q</kbd> on Windows) to play Half-Life 3.</p>
```

---

## Accessibility

Text is core to the content of your page, so making it accessible to everyone is important. Here are some general guidelines to follow.

### Text vs. Images

Prefer using actual text over text inside a graphic. Assistive technologies can't read an image, and the text in an image can't be resized by a browser, like normal text. If an image has text that needs to be read, add it in the `alt` attribute of the image.

```html
<img src="assets/img/buy-now.jpg" alt="Buy now">
```

---

### Contrast

The contrast between the color of an element's text and its background should be high enough that low-vision users can read it. **The minimum recommended contrast ratio is 4.5:1.** There are no automated tools that can effectively check this for you, but if you aren't sure about a specific color combination, you can run it through one of many color contrast checkers, such as [WebAIM's color contrast checker](http://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/).

Google Chrome's [Accessibility Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/accessibility-developer-t/fpkknkljclfencbdbgkenhalefipecmb?hl=en) also includes a contrast checker. By selecting an element in the inspector, you can see if the contrast meets the minimum standards.

<img class="thumbnail" src="assets/img/a11y/chrome-a11y-inspector.jpg" alt="Screenshot of Google Chrome's Accessibility Tools">

---

### Type Size

When possible, use the `rem` and `em` units to size everything. Not just font size, but also padding, margins, and any length value. This ensures that your design scales up and down uniformly if the user changes their browser's text size. It's common for vision-impaired users to resize their browser up to 200% zoom.

We use the `rem` unit nearly everywhere in Foundation, and even wrote a Sass function to make it a little easier. The `rem-calc()` function can take one or more pixel values and convert them to proper `rem` values.

```scss
.element {
  width: rem-calc(300);
  padding: rem-calc(10 16);
}
```

---

### More Resources

- [WebAIM: Fonts](http://webaim.org/techniques/fonts/)
- [WebAIM: Links and HyperText](http://webaim.org/techniques/hypertext/)
- [WebAIM: Writing Clearly and Simply](http://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/)
- [WebAIM: Color Contrast Checker](http://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/)

---

## Print Styles

Foundation includes print styles developed by HTML5 Boilerplate to give you some basic print-specific styles. These are activated when you print through a media query. It includes:

- Clearing out backgrounds, box shadows and text shadows
- Appending link URLs after the anchor text
- Adding borders to `<blockquote>` and `<pre>` elements
- Page cleanup and window minimization

On top of that, Foundation includes a couple of simple classes you can use to control elements printing, or not printing. Simply attach `.show-for-print` to an element to only show when printing, and `.hide-for-print` to hide something when printing.

<a class="" data-open-video="4:42"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>

<div class="callout primary">
  <p>Print styles use `!important` to ensure they aren't overriden by more specific selectors. This framework conscientiously avoids using `!important` declarations. This is one of the few components that does.</p>
</div>

Commit message:

docs: add doc for `code-inline` and `code-block` in typography-base

docs/pages/typography-base.md, after:

---
title: Base Typography
description: Typography in Foundation 6 is meant to make your life easier by providing clean, attractive, simple default styles for all of the most basic typographical elements.
video: pzAyIfsXis4
sass:
  - scss/typography/_base.scss
  - scss/typography/_print.scss
tags:
  - paragraph
  - heading
  - link
  - definition
  - blockquote
  - abbreviation
  - acronym
  - code
  - keystroke
---

## Paragraphs

This is a paragraph. Paragraphs are preset with a font size, line height and spacing to match the overall vertical rhythm. To show what a paragraph looks like this needs a little more content&mdash;so, did you know that there are storms occurring on Jupiter that are larger than the Earth? Pretty cool. Use the `<strong>` and `<em>` tags to denote text that should be displayed or read with emphasis. Browsers will **bold** and *italicize* the words, while screen readers will read them with *emphasis*.

<div class="callout primary">
  <p>If the emphasis of a phrase is important, don't make the emphasis purely visual&mdash;use the `<em>` or `<strong>` tags to mark it as well. Both of these tags have built-in styles, but there's no harm in adding additional styles in specific contexts.</p>
</div>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/IamManchanda/pen/oWMEOd?editors=1000" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html
<p>This is a paragraph. Paragraphs are preset with a font size, line height and spacing to match the overall vertical rhythm. To show what a paragraph looks like this needs a little more content so, did you know that there are storms occurring on Jupiter that are larger than the Earth? Pretty cool. Wrap strong around type to <strong>make it bold!</strong>. You can also use em to <em>italicize your words</em>.</p>
```

---

## Header

Foundation includes styles for all headings&mdash;they're balanced and sized along a modular scale.

<a class="" data-open-video="0:25"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>
<div class="callout primary">
  <p>Avoid skipping heading levels when structuring your document, as it confuses screen readers. For example, after using an <code>&lt;h2&gt;</code> in your code, the next heading used should be either <code>&lt;h2&gt;</code> or <code>&lt;h3&gt;</code>. If you need a heading to look bigger or smaller to match a specific style, use CSS to override the default size.</p>
</div>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
  <a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/PmeKme" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<h1>h1. This is a very large header.</h1>
<h2>h2. This is a large header.</h2>
<h3>h3. This is a medium header.</h3>
<h4>h4. This is a moderate header.</h4>
<h5>h5. This is a small header.</h5>
<h6>h6. This is a tiny header.</h6>
```

---

### Header Styles

The framework includes two typographic scales&mdash;one uses a narrow range of sizes for small-sized screens, and the other uses a wider range of sizes for medium- and larger-sized screens. You can change these scales, or add new ones for other breakpoints, by editing the `$header-styles` map in your project's <a href="sass.html#the-settings-file">Settings File</a>.

<a class="" data-open-video="1:28"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>

Header  | Default | Medium and up
--------|---------|--------------
`<h1>`  | 24px    | 48px
`<h2>`  | 20px    | 40px
`<h3>`  | 19px    | 31px
`<h4>`  | 18px    | 25px
`<h5>`  | 17px    | 20px
`<h6>`  | 16px    | 16px

You can also adjust line height, margin top and margin bottom for each heading size by adding values in your <a href="sass.html#the-settings-file">Settings File</a>.

In its most complete form the `$header-styles` map looks like this:

```
$header-styles: (
  'small': (
    'h1': ('font-size': 24, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h2': ('font-size': 20, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h3': ('font-size': 19, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h4': ('font-size': 18, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h5': ('font-size': 17, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h6': ('font-size': 16, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom)
  ),
  'medium': (
    'h1': ('font-size': 48, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h2': ('font-size': 40, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h3': ('font-size': 31, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h4': ('font-size': 25, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h5': ('font-size': 20, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h6': ('font-size': 16, 'line-height': $header-lineheight, 'margin-top': 0, 'margin-bottom': $header-margin-bottom)
  ),
  ...
);
```

Because this is a little bit lengthy we have also introduced a short form, that you can use alternatively:

```
$header-styles: (
  'small': (
    'h1': ('fs': 24, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h2': ('fs': 20, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h3': ('fs': 19, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h4': ('fs': 18, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h5': ('fs': 17, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h6': ('fs': 16, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom)
  ),
  'medium': (
    'h1': ('fs': 48, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h2': ('fs': 40, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h3': ('fs': 31, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h4': ('fs': 25, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h5': ('fs': 20, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom),
    'h6': ('fs': 16, 'lh': $header-lineheight, 'mt': 0, 'mb': $header-margin-bottom)
  ),
  ...
);
```

The values for `'font-size'`/`'fs'`, `'margin-top'`/`'mt'` and `'margin-bottom'`/`'mb'` are transformed into 'rem's. You can use any unit, but if you don't, we assume that you mean 'px'. If you do not set the keys `'font-size'`/`'fs'` defaults to `1rem`, `'margin-top'`/`'mt'` to `0` and `'margin-bottom'`/`'mb'` to `$header-margin-bottom` for size `'small'`. Thereafter the values for a larger size are inherited from the values of the smaller size if no value is entered for a larger breakpoint.

The value for `'line-height'`/`'lh'` is transformed into a unitless number, that expresses the line-height relative to the fonts-size. You can also input any unit. If you don't, we assume that for numbers smaller than or equal to 10, you mean a typical relative line-height. However, if you put in anything larger than 10, we assume you mean 'px', since we have not yet seen relative line-heights that were larger than 10. If you do not set `'line-height'`/`'lh'` it defaults to `$header-lineheight` for size `'small'`. Thereafter the value for a larger size is inherited from the values of the smaller size.

<div class="callout alert">
  <p><strong>The `$header-styles` map has replaced `$header-sizes` map in version 6.3. `$header-styles` map is a more general map than `$header-sizes`.</strong></p>
  <p>`$header-sizes` map is still working and is used to initialize the `$header-styles` map. In version 6.4 the `$header-sizes` is going to be deprecated.</p>
</div>

---

### Small Header Segments

By inserting a `<small>` element into a header Foundation will scale the header font size down for an inline element, allowing you to use this for subtitles or other secondary header text.

<p>
  <a class="" data-open-video="2:46"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>
</p>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
  <a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/eWrEEm" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<h3>Foundation for Sites <small>Version 6.4.0</small></h3>
```

---

## Links

Links are very standard, and the color is preset to the Foundation primary color. <a href="global.html">Learn more about Foundation's global colors.</a>

<a class="" data-open-video="3:22"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>
<div class="callout">
  <p>To make links screen reader-friendly, avoid using vague words like "here" or "read more" within link text. The text of the link itself should adequately describe where the link goes.</p>
</div>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
  <a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/wdjqrY" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html
<p>Links are very standard, and the color is preset to the Foundation primary color. <a href="global.html">Learn more about Foundation's global colors.</a></p>
```

---

## Dividers

Use dividers to define thematic breaks between paragraphs. To denote the end of one section of a page and the start of another, it's better to use the `<section>` tag.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/Vbxzrz" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html
<hr>
```

---

## Unordered Lists

Use an unordered list to... *list things*, if the order of the items doesn't matter.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/mmLMXx" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<ul>
  <li>List item with a much longer description or more content.</li>
  <li>List item</li>
  <li>List item
    <ul>
      <li>Nested list item</li>
      <li>Nested list item</li>
      <li>Nested list item</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>List item</li>
  <li>List item</li>
  <li>List item</li>
</ul>
```

---

## Ordered Lists

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/XRqaBd" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<ol>
  <li>Cheese (essential)</li>
  <li>Pepperoni</li>
  <li>Bacon
    <ol>
      <li>Normal bacon</li>
      <li>Canadian bacon</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>Sausage</li>
  <li>Onions</li>
  <li>Mushrooms</li>
</ol>
```

---

## Definition Lists

A definition list (`<dl>`) is used to display name-value pairs, like metadata or a dictionary definition. Each term (`<dt>`) is paired with one or more definitions (`<dd>`).

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/oWdeMe" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<dl>
  <dt>Time</dt>
  <dd>The indefinite continued progress of existence and events in the past, present, and future regarded as a whole.</dd>
  <dt>Space</dt>
  <dd>A continuous area or expanse that is free, available, or unoccupied.</dd>
  <dd>The dimensions of height, depth, and width within which all things exist and move.</dd>
</dl>
```

---

## Blockquotes

Sometimes other people say smart things, and you may want to mention those things with a quote. We've got you covered.

<div class="callout">
  By default, `<cite>` takes the look of the `.cite-block` component. In Sass, you can customize it with <a href="#sass-variables">`$cite-*` variables</a> or disable it by setting `$enable-cite-block` to false.
</div>

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/ZKoJMb" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<blockquote>
  Those people who think they know everything are a great annoyance to those of us who do.
  <cite>Isaac Asimov</cite>
</blockquote>
```

---

## Abbreviations

Use the `<abbr>` tag to annotate a shortened term. Abbreviations must always have a `title` attribute which clarifies the full term.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/IamManchanda/pen/jmpzNW?editors=1000" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<p>In my dream last night, I saw <abbr title="John Ronald Reuel">J. R. R.</abbr> Tolkien and George <abbr title="Raymond Richard">R. R.</abbr> Martin hanging out on Sunset <abbr title="Boulevard">Blvd</abbr>.</p>
```

---

## Code

Format references to code with the `<code>` tag. In order for angle brackets `<>` to render correctly, you need to change them to `&lt; and &gt;`.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/ZURBFoundation/pen/LymjvO" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
Remember to escape angle brackets when printing HTML: <code>&lt;div&gt;</code>
```

---

Use `.code-inline` component to apply the code style when you want.

```html_example
<span class="code-inline">I am not code, but I am displayed as if.</span>
```

---

Use the `.code-block` component to create a block of code.

```html_example
<code class="code-block">{
    "What I am": "I am a big chunk of code. I can have very long lines, I will not break and show a scrollbar instead.",
    ...
}</code>
```

<div class="callout info">
  <p>It is recommanded to use the appropriate semantic markup for your content (`<code>` for code, `<pre>` for pre-formatted text). Styling classes `.code-inline` and `.code-block` should be used without semantic markup only if the content is NOT code/pre-formatted text but should be displayed as if.</p>
</div>

---

## Keystrokes

Use the `<kbd>` element to annotate a key stroke or combination.

<div class="docs-codepen-container">
<a class="codepen-logo-link" href="https://codepen.io/IamManchanda/pen/GmBxRL?editors=1000" target="_blank"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/logos/edit-in-browser.svg" class="" height="" width="" alt="edit on codepen button"></a>
</div>

```html_example
<p>Press <kbd>Cmd+Q</kbd> (or <kbd>Ctrl+Q</kbd> on Windows) to play Half-Life 3.</p>
```

---

## Accessibility

Text is core to the content of your page, so making it accessible to everyone is important. Here are some general guidelines to follow.

### Text vs. Images

Prefer using actual text over text inside a graphic. Assistive technologies can't read an image, and the text in an image can't be resized by a browser, like normal text. If an image has text that needs to be read, add it in the `alt` attribute of the image.

```html
<img src="assets/img/buy-now.jpg" alt="Buy now">
```

---

### Contrast

The contrast between the color of an element's text and its background should be high enough that low-vision users can read it. **The minimum recommended contrast ratio is 4.5:1.** There are no automated tools that can effectively check this for you, but if you aren't sure about a specific color combination, you can run it through one of many color contrast checkers, such as [WebAIM's color contrast checker](http://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/).

Google Chrome's [Accessibility Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/accessibility-developer-t/fpkknkljclfencbdbgkenhalefipecmb?hl=en) also includes a contrast checker. By selecting an element in the inspector, you can see if the contrast meets the minimum standards.

<img class="thumbnail" src="assets/img/a11y/chrome-a11y-inspector.jpg" alt="Screenshot of Google Chrome's Accessibility Tools">

---

### Type Size

When possible, use the `rem` and `em` units to size everything. Not just font size, but also padding, margins, and any length value. This ensures that your design scales up and down uniformly if the user changes their browser's text size. It's common for vision-impaired users to resize their browser up to 200% zoom.

We use the `rem` unit nearly everywhere in Foundation, and even wrote a Sass function to make it a little easier. The `rem-calc()` function can take one or more pixel values and convert them to proper `rem` values.

```scss
.element {
  width: rem-calc(300);
  padding: rem-calc(10 16);
}
```

---

### More Resources

- [WebAIM: Fonts](http://webaim.org/techniques/fonts/)
- [WebAIM: Links and HyperText](http://webaim.org/techniques/hypertext/)
- [WebAIM: Writing Clearly and Simply](http://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/)
- [WebAIM: Color Contrast Checker](http://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/)

---

## Print Styles

Foundation includes print styles developed by HTML5 Boilerplate to give you some basic print-specific styles. These are activated when you print through a media query. It includes:

- Clearing out backgrounds, box shadows and text shadows
- Appending link URLs after the anchor text
- Adding borders to `<blockquote>` and `<pre>` elements
- Page cleanup and window minimization

On top of that, Foundation includes a couple of simple classes you can use to control elements printing, or not printing. Simply attach `.show-for-print` to an element to only show when printing, and `.hide-for-print` to hide something when printing.

<a class="" data-open-video="4:42"><img src="{{root}}assets/img/icons/watch-video-icon.svg" class="video-icon" height="30" width="30" alt=""> Watch this part in video</a>

<div class="callout primary">
  <p>Print styles use `!important` to ensure they aren't overriden by more specific selectors. This framework conscientiously avoids using `!important` declarations. This is one of the few components that does.</p>
</div>
