README.md, before:

## The Berndt Group's Foundation Fork

This is a fork of ZURB's official Foundation for Sites framework for use with [TBG-foundation-cli](https://github.com/BerndtGroup/TBG-foundation-cli) and the [TBG-foundation-template](https://github.com/BerndtGroup/TBG-foundation-template).

# [Foundation for Sites](http://foundation.zurb.com)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/zurb/foundation-sites.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/zurb/foundation-sites)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/foundation-sites.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/foundation-sites)
[![Bower version](https://badge.fury.io/bo/foundation-sites.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/bo/foundation-sites)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/foundation-rails.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/foundation-rails)
[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-sites/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-sites)
[![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-sites/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-sites?type=dev)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/zurb/foundation-sites?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

Foundation is the most advanced responsive front-end framework in the world. Quickly go from prototype to production, building sites or apps that work on any kind of device with Foundation. Includes a fully customizable, responsive grid, a large library of Sass mixins, commonly used JavaScript plugins, and full accessibility support.

## Getting Started

The quickest way to get started is with the [basic CSS download](http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/download/). You can get versions with every component, essential ones only, or a custom build.

If you're a Sass user, we have two starter project templates, the [Basic Template](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites-template) and the [ZURB Template](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-zurb-template). You can install them by manually downloading them from GitHub, or using the [Foundation CLI](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-cli).

Lastly, if you're rolling your own setup, you can install Foundation through a variety of [package managers](http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs/installation.html#package-managers).

## Documentation

The documentation can be found at <https://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs>. To run the documentation locally on your machine, you need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed on your computer. (Your Node.js version must be **4.0** or higher.)

Run these commands to set up the documentation:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites
cd foundation-sites
npm install
```

Then run `npm start` to compile the documentation. When it finishes, a new browser window will open pointing to a BrowserSync server displaying the documentation.

## Testing

Foundation has three kinds of tests: JavaScript, Sass, and visual regression. Refer to our [testing guide](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites/wiki/Testing-Guide) for more details.

These commands will run the various tests:

- `npm run test:sass`
- `npm run test:javascript`
- `npm run test:visual`

Testing Supported By<br/>
<img width="160" src="http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs/assets/img/logos/browser-stack.svg" alt="BrowserStack"/>

## Contributing

Check out our [contributing guide](http://foundation.zurb.com/develop/contribute.html) to learn how you can contribute to Foundation. You can also browse the [Help Wanted](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites/labels/help%20wanted) tag in our issue tracker to find things to do.

Copyright (c) 2017 ZURB, inc.

Commit message:

added support for publishing docs to tbg github pages

README.md, after:

## The Berndt Group's Foundation Fork

This is a fork of ZURB's official Foundation for Sites framework for use with [TBG-foundation-cli](https://github.com/BerndtGroup/TBG-foundation-cli) and the [TBG-foundation-template](https://github.com/BerndtGroup/TBG-foundation-template).

To publish updates to [TBG's github pages](https://berndtgroup.github.io), run `npm start tbg`

# [Foundation for Sites](http://foundation.zurb.com)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/zurb/foundation-sites.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/zurb/foundation-sites)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/foundation-sites.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/foundation-sites)
[![Bower version](https://badge.fury.io/bo/foundation-sites.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/bo/foundation-sites)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/foundation-rails.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/foundation-rails)
[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-sites/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-sites)
[![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-sites/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/zurb/foundation-sites?type=dev)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/zurb/foundation-sites?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

Foundation is the most advanced responsive front-end framework in the world. Quickly go from prototype to production, building sites or apps that work on any kind of device with Foundation. Includes a fully customizable, responsive grid, a large library of Sass mixins, commonly used JavaScript plugins, and full accessibility support.

## Getting Started

The quickest way to get started is with the [basic CSS download](http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/download/). You can get versions with every component, essential ones only, or a custom build.

If you're a Sass user, we have two starter project templates, the [Basic Template](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites-template) and the [ZURB Template](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-zurb-template). You can install them by manually downloading them from GitHub, or using the [Foundation CLI](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-cli).

Lastly, if you're rolling your own setup, you can install Foundation through a variety of [package managers](http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs/installation.html#package-managers).

## Documentation

The documentation can be found at <https://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs>. To run the documentation locally on your machine, you need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed on your computer. (Your Node.js version must be **4.0** or higher.)

Run these commands to set up the documentation:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites
cd foundation-sites
npm install
```

Then run `npm start` to compile the documentation. When it finishes, a new browser window will open pointing to a BrowserSync server displaying the documentation.

## Testing

Foundation has three kinds of tests: JavaScript, Sass, and visual regression. Refer to our [testing guide](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites/wiki/Testing-Guide) for more details.

These commands will run the various tests:

- `npm run test:sass`
- `npm run test:javascript`
- `npm run test:visual`

Testing Supported By<br/>
<img width="160" src="http://foundation.zurb.com/sites/docs/assets/img/logos/browser-stack.svg" alt="BrowserStack"/>

## Contributing

Check out our [contributing guide](http://foundation.zurb.com/develop/contribute.html) to learn how you can contribute to Foundation. You can also browse the [Help Wanted](https://github.com/zurb/foundation-sites/labels/help%20wanted) tag in our issue tracker to find things to do.

Copyright (c) 2017 ZURB, inc.
